---
title: "Ideas"
title_separator: "|"
subtitle: "Version 0.0.1"
date: Sun Mar 28 01:15:23 IST 2021
last_modified_at: Sun Mar 28 01:15:23 IST 2021
tags: 
  - WIP 
  - Essays
---
Anything that can provide some value in long term or short term. It can be a problem as well as solution.

## Background:

You can skip this to save time. I have always been the person with lots of ideas (not talking about quality here). I have executed a few at a small scale (excluding work) but dumped most of them. I wanted to write about it. ~~This will be a doc in progress always, There is a copy of the original draft here~~ . I want to learn about evaluating ideas in terms of business, impact, long term solutions, growth etc. Earlier as a student, my focus used to be PoC not products. I didn’t care much about business, growth etc, we were more focused on impact and the feasibility. 

## Types of ideas

1. **Quick :** Something that you observed and you suddenly feel you’ve found the solution (or even a problem). Similar to dopamine hits that you receive from social media. Apparently, the probability of this idea being a real solution or a problem is very less. Why? This is not backed by any research. Dataset is very small to understand if this is an actual problem. Most of these can be validated with quick search but that is not the most important part. Most important part is that you write it somewhere. Prefer a simple bulleted list. Write 10-20 words about it, at least enough so that you get context when you read in the future. Any list is better than no list. On weekends, spend some time to clear up your list. 
2. **Hobby or continuous learning :** These ideas come natural to you, because you have been working on some related fields or it is your hobby or you see people (or yourself) struggling frequently with this problem. Ideas like these are good. Paul Graham has written about this in his essay: [ideas](http://paulgraham.com/ideas.html). 
3. **Research in a specific topic**: When you actually want to find problems in a specific area for multiple reasons like curiosity, starting up, future potential, huge impact. You can be a noob in this area but with research of a few days/weeks, you get good enough context in this domain. Ideation threshold can be high for these areas, as you will have to actively find time. For me, brainstorming with people has played an important role.These days, it is hard to brainstorm so I am trying to find alternatives like reading reports/studies, visiting technical forums, googling around.



It is hard to predict long term bets, here comes the probability. Bulk “produce” ideas. Even if the probability is less, count will be higher. Ideas can compound and result in more ideas (Connecting the dots, you know).